Security.md, before:

# Valigator Staking Security
We put huge priority on security and ethical operations. We apply all best practices from our experience running enterprise technology environments to our operations in blockchain infrastructure. We run our systems like our own tokens depend on it. Because they do.

## Security
Valigator uses all common security features and software, including but not limited to, timely software updates, ssh keys for connections (no passwords), multi factor authentication, closed ports to the public, virtual private networks, etc. We also follow best practices such as least privaledge access (only those that need access, have access and only to what they need).

## Solana software
We do not apply any modifications to the open source validator software clients, other than the Jito software.

## Additional software & services
### Triton One Jet / Cascade Marketplace
Starting at the end of April 2025 we began testing receiving transactions from the Cascade Marketplace operated by Triton One.  We do not believe this contributes or encourages detrimental outcomes on the network.

### Marinade Stake Auction Marketplace (SAM)
Starting in May 2025 (epoch 782) we are testing Marinade's marketplace as an additional means of attracting stake.  It's brought to our attention that others use that in their operations when sandwiching transactions.  We are against this practice entirely and do not wish to be conflated with those validators.

## Validator commission
On the public validator we run at 4% commission on inflation and 4% on MEV. See details and sign up for alerts here: https://stakewiz.com/validator/gaToR246dheK1DGAMEqxMdBJZwU4qFyt7DzhSwAHFWF

## Why git and not a webpage?
Using git provides users information transparently about all changes with dates in this statement. Any changes to these statements can be reviewed over time looking at the commit history.

## Contacts
Twitter https://x.com/ValigatorTech

## Credit
Credit to @diman_io for the concept of using git history as proof of security statment.

Commit message:

Updates include leaving the Marinade SAM and joining DoubleZero testnet.

Security.md, after:

# Valigator Staking Security
We put huge priority on security and ethical operations. We apply all best practices from our experience running enterprise technology environments to our operations in blockchain infrastructure. We run our systems like our own tokens depend on it. Because they do.

## Security
Valigator uses all common security features and software, including but not limited to, timely software updates, ssh keys for connections (no passwords), multi factor authentication, closed ports to the public, virtual private networks, etc. We also follow best practices such as least privaledge access (only those that need access, have access and only to what they need).

## Solana software
We do not apply any modifications to the open source validator software clients, other than the Jito software.

## Additional software & services
### Triton One Jet / Cascade Marketplace
Starting at the end of April 2025 we began testing receiving transactions from the Cascade Marketplace operated by Triton One.  We do not believe this contributes or encourages detrimental outcomes on the network.

### Marinade Stake Auction Marketplace (SAM)
Tldr; Valigator took place in the Marinade marketplace from about epoch 782 to 797 as a test and not at a loss to perform sandwiching.

Starting in May 2025 (epoch 782) we tested Marinade's stake auction marketplace (SAM) as an additional means of attracting stake.  It's been brought to our attention that others use the SAM in their operations when sandwiching transactions.  We are against this practice entirely and do not wish to be conflated with those validators.   We left the marketplace starting in epoch 797 after being dissapointed in the transparency, logistics and perception of it.

### DoubleZero
Starting in epoch 795 Valigator's mainnet-beta public validator joined the DoubleZero testnet.

## Validator commission
On the public validator we run at 4% commission on inflation and 4% on MEV. See details and sign up for alerts here: https://stakewiz.com/validator/gaToR246dheK1DGAMEqxMdBJZwU4qFyt7DzhSwAHFWF

## Why git and not a webpage?
Using git provides users information transparently about all changes with dates in this statement. Any changes to these statements can be reviewed over time looking at the commit history.

## Contacts
Twitter https://x.com/ValigatorTech

## Credit
Credit to @diman_io for the concept of using git history as proof of security statment.
